[Music]
so you tap a button and something
happens that's how the world works right
well not exactly the world is actually
filled with buttons that are only there
to seem like they do something well in
fact being useless and not only buttons
there are all kinds of things that are
there for no apparent reason number one
pedestrian crossing buttons if you live
in a big city you've probably seen these
buttons place right beneath a huge sign
that says press the button and wait for
a green light or something like that I
don't know about you but I always
diligently press it although it doesn't
always work as it should or does it work
at all
the thing is transport authorities
sometimes switch off the functionality
of these traffic buttons on purpose in
New York for example there are 1000 of
them but currently only 100 actually
work when you press them all the rest
are no more than a decoration they're
often called placebo buttons because all
they do is create an illusion of control
you press a button and you expect that
something will happen well not knowing
that the process is automatic such
buttons have an important psychological
effect doing something feels better than
not doing anything when you press the
button at a crossing you feel more
assured that the light will eventually
switch to green otherwise who knows
maybe it'll keep being red forever well
some of these buttons do work and no one
will tell you exactly which ones don't
so not to feel stupid just standing
there and waiting better to press the
button anyway why they turn them off in
the first place though because the
traffic light system turned out to be
much more complex especially in big
cities if you drive you could notice
that sometimes you get in a green way
where every traffic light lets you go
ahead it happens when you adhere to the
speed limit and there are no obstacles
on your way like busy unregulated
crossings but if there's a traffic light
with a working crossing button it can
turn red at any moment and your green
wave will be over
so not to disrupt the work of the whole
network many of the traffic control
switches were turned into placebo
buttons number two
elevator door closed buttons if you live
on say the fifteenth floor and you're in
a hurry to get home because your bladder
is about to burst for example you'll
probably feel fine running up the stairs
but if you decide to wait for the
elevator instead you'll smash that door
close button until the doors finally
closed which they will do awfully slowly
sorry to disappoint now that all closed
buttons are equally effective in the
u.s. many of these buttons don't work at
all the elevator doors will stay open
for no less than the time appointed to
them no matter how much or how long you
mash that button the roots of this lie
in the legislation in fact the 1990
Americans with Disabilities Act stated
that elevator doors should remain open
long enough for anyone with any movement
impairment be it a wheelchair or
crutches to get inside without trouble
so unless you're an emergency service
worker or just happen to know the
override code you won't be able to make
the doors closed faster maybe it's best
to take those stairs after all if you
live outside of the US though your
chances of getting a working close
button are much higher in many countries
there are no such strict regulations so
you can easily find an elevator where if
you press the door close button the
doors will actually shut immediately as
an added bonus if you press the
door-open button right after that
they'll stop Midway and open again ah
the wonders of Technology
number three thermostat control in
hotels and offices most white collars
will agree with me having a thermostat
in the office is a necessity not a
luxury and sometimes there are veritable
battles going on between those who like
to keep it cool and those who would
rather sweat than shiver which one are
you by the way cheer down in the
comments but the truth is much more sly
I think is the word you see most office
buildings have a central heating
ventilation and air conditioning system
HVAC sure sure
and the thing about this central system
is that you can't actually affect it
from anywhere outside the control center
in fact there are two general types of
office thermostats one that is total
placebo and one that is only partially
so the total placebo type speaks for
itself whatever it shows on that little
digital screen is a lie you can press
the buttons all you like and the numbers
will change but the temperature will
remain the same the partial placebo
thermostat has a little bit of swag it
can change a couple of degrees in both
directions but no more than that so if
you press the button to decrease the
temperature from 72 degrees and it goes
all the way down to 60 rest assured that
in reality it stops at somewhere about
70 degrees you will hear the vents were
though and the machinery will seem to
come to motion that and a slight drop in
temperature create the feeling that
you're really in control the placebo
effect is that you believe something's
changed and your body reacts accordingly
same goes for many hotels too if your
room is equipped with a thermostat you
can be sure it only creates a semblance
of activity while keeping the room
temperature the same whatever you do for
progress bars whenever you download a
file from the internet or install a new
app on your device you see a bar that
informs you of how much time you have
left away ever seen it stuck at 99
percent for like forever though yeah
it's exactly what it seems the progress
bar is always wildly inaccurate one of
his creators Brad a Myers said that the
purpose of the bar was never to show the
actual progress its main aim was and
still is to sue the users and they don't
seem to mind at all according to the
test Myers conducted with his team users
didn't care that the progress bar was
inaccurate they just preferred having
something to show that progress was
really made when nothing happened on the
screen they got the feeling that
something went wrong or their download
wasn't working at all honestly I start
mashing Keys myself if I just saw a
blank screen to
five calorie counters on treadmills what
a pleasant feeling it is to run on a
treadmill and watch calories melt away
in real time only this melting may not
be exactly what you expect when you run
you burn calories for sure but the
precise amount depends on various
factors such as your weight overall
fitness and body fat percentage what you
see on the screen is another placebo I'm
afraid in this case it's not entirely
useless though the calorie count shows
you the average of what you could get if
you were of well average bill this
counter is once again only there to
assure you that you're doing everything
right the downside of this is that even
if you're not doing it right the
treadmill won't let you know that's why
depending solely on the machinery is not
recommended hire a personal coach for
best results six graceful failures now
this isn't so much about the illusion of
your control as it is about you being
calm does it make you mad when you see
an error message on the screen of your
PC or other device me it sure does well
many companies have found a way out of
this inconvenience for example if you
turn on some app that has personalized
recommendations and they fail for some
reason you won't even know about it
instead you'll see a screen with popular
choices which are likely to appeal to
you as well and it all started in the
1960s when the one ESS phone system was
invented in the US when a call attempt
fail the system didn't tell the caller
about it but simply switched to another
recipient instead so when somebody took
the phone on the other end of the line
you apologize for dialing a wrong number
and tried again this way you didn't feel
the frustration of having a failed call
so now you know hey if you learn
something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life